All right, so next up, let's address our ability to retrieve a person with their address attached.
Right?
So we just finished implementing the ability to save an address that is attached to a person or embedded
in a person, however you want to think of it, right?
We save the person.
And the saving of the address cascades down into the database as well.
But currently we don't have the ability to retrieve the addresses via the person.
So let's remedy that problem now.
All right.
So as usual, we'll start off with a test, and I think maybe I will start off by just copying.
This can save person with an address test because I think that would be a logical beginning for the
ability to retrieve one, right?
We just saved one, and now we'll get it back out and I'm going to model model it a little bit off of
the can find person by ID.
In fact, I think I'm going to model it a lot off of that.
So I'm going to paste here and then we will change this name to can find a person.
By I.D. with Address, how about that?
OK, so here we are saving that person well, actually here and there's the person right there.
And then if we model this after what we did on the can find person by I.D. After we save the person,
we then turn around and do a repo, find by ID and then we use the person's ID, right?
So let's try doing that down here.
So we will do a repo dot, find my I.D. and then we will pass in the saved person's I.D. like so and
that's going to return an optional though.
And so then we will just do a get.
And then we will capture the output of that, which is just going to be a person.
Then I suppose I will go ahead and call this a found person again.
And now down here, let me just create a brand new assertion.
So our assertion here.
Now this is all about the address more than the person.
So I'm thinking to do something like assert that the found person does not get home address.
Dot dot get.
So in other words, let's unwrap the the address out of the optional.
We'll do that here.
OK, so now we should have an actual address.
And then let's dig in to one of the fields on the address.
Perhaps and maybe we'll do a comparison of something.
So I don't feel like typing a lot.
So maybe we'll say get the state and then we'll say is equal to.
And if you check up here, we're setting that state to Washington.
So let's just say it should be that way.
OK.
All right.
So I think that should be ready to go.
So let's run this and see that it should fail first.
All right, and I will highlight just this guy, and there's no value present, which makes sense,
right?
Because it's an optional I will take that as a as a reasonable level of failure for now.
All right.
And so now let's just make it work.
And again, I'm not going to do the cat and mouse game.
Let's just go for it here.
All right.
So where to begin?
Well, I think maybe we should start off by possibly looking at the methods in the person repository
that are related to finding.
So I'm going to jump over to the person repository or people repository.
So down here we've got this extract entity from results set, and this one method is kind of being associated
with a bunch of functionality, right, with the ability to find by ID and all these other things.
So right now, we're just concerned with the ability to find by I.D., though.
So the job of this method is indeed to take a results set and then extract all of the values from that
result set in order to build up a new person.
And then it returns that person.
OK.
So I think this might be an OK place to start.
So let's take a quick look at a graphical representation of these tables, just as a reminder of what's
even going on here.
So here I've got a spreadsheet that represents in blue a little bit of sample data of the people table
and then some sample data of the addresses as well.
And so if you'll recall, we don't have all of the columns here because we don't really need them here.
We've got the ID of the person last name, first name, date of birth.
The main thing I want to depict here, though, is the home address.
This is our foreign key column, if you will, that needs to be pointing to records in the addresses
table.
OK.
So for example, here we've got Jerry Smith with a home address value of 300.
That 300 should be pointing to a record in the addresses table with an idea of 300.
OK, so that is to say that Jerry Smith lives at nine eight seven six Fountain Lane, for example,
and so on and so forth.
OK, so the main thing I wanted to just make sure you're clear on is the fact that the results set that
we are currently receiving for these people will have a column in it now, which corresponds to this
home address column, and we're going to need that value so that we can then turn around and go grab
one of these rows for the corresponding address of that person.
OK.
So let's jump back over to the idea.
All right.
So here we are grabbing various column data, right?
And currently we're just grabbing that data and then capturing it into local variables and then using
those variables to create this new person here.
So first thing I think we want to do is add the ability to grab the home, address foreign key value,
if you will.
OK, so let's see what that might look like.
We can do an arrest.
Get now that's going to be a right because it's a it's a it's a number that points back to an ID.
So that's going to be along and we can use a column name here and the column name is going to be home
address because that's what we renamed it to a few lessons ago.
And then we can capture that and I will go ahead and just call it home address and notice.
I'm using the camel case version of the name right there.
All right.
Very good.
And now here's the key.
So we need to actually go retrieve that address.
And so just as with the saving, we saved an address by delegating down to the address repository.
We can use the address repository to do the lookup of an address as well.
And I think that might make a lot of sense to do here.
So let's go ahead and see what that might look like.
So I think we already created a field for the address repository within the people repository address
repository right there, so we can just reference that address repository and then we can use the Find
My ID, which we're now simply inheriting from the KRudd repository, right?
So we can use this pass in that home address now.
Actually, I just realized here we shouldn't call this home address.
It's not an address, it's an idea of an address.
So I'd like to be a little more clear on that.
So I'm going to rename that with a shift of six and then add on ID there.
Just to be a little more clear that we're just dealing with only a number.
All right.
And then that will return an optional address.
And now I will call this a home address, because this is this should be a full object at this point,
and now we need to associate that address with this person now.
Currently, I don't believe we have a constructor that will allow us to do that.
I'm just put my cursor inside of the left parentheses there and then did a command p for parameters
to show me the parameters.
And no, we do not have a constructor for that, nor do we really need one.
So what I'm going to do instead is just select this entire new person and I'm going to extract the variable
out of that with an option Command V. And I will just allow it to be called person.
Now that I have that, I can make a new line right before the return statement here and now I can just
call the setter method so I can call Person Dot set home address.
Now remember, I chose to make the setter method for the home address, take an address and not an optional
address.
OK, now of course, since our home address here is an optional whereas this method is expecting an
actual address, we'll want to be mindful of that.
So what we can do here is a few things we could do home address, dot or else.
And then really, in that case, we're just going to go ahead and just pass in a null anyway.
Now remember that the set home address method, though, is going to see that that's a null is going
to go ahead and just wrap this back in an optional anyway.
We also could add an additional set home address method that takes an optional in addition to an address.
So we'd have to set home address methods, and that's totally valid.
That's called overloading, right?
We'd be overloading the set home address method to have two versions of it that take two different inputs.
We could do that, too.
It would be fine, but this works also.
All right.
So now if there was an address that would get set, all right.
Now, we've got a couple of other steps that we're going to have to do.
One of them is the fact that this find by ID method probably needs to be revised a bit to make sure
that it's retrieving the additional column for the home address.
So I'm just going to click on it.
And actually, I'm sorry, I'm looking at the enum here.
The the query is over here.
Fine by ID sequel someone a command.
Click on that.
And what do we have here?
We've got selected first name, last name, date of birth and salary from people where ID equals whatever.
So, yeah, we need to add in one more column now, right?
Which is the.
Home address, so that part is good.
And then the other thing we're going to have to do, though, is actually teach the address repository
how to retrieve an address, right?
So it knows how to say that because we gave it the insert statement for that.
But we did not implement the ability to retrieve.
So let's jump over to the address repository and I'm just command clicking or control.
Be on the address repository class in the last class to jump over to here.
All right.
So here we are in the address repository and we implemented the ability to save and there's our school
for that.
But to retrieve, we will need to implement SQL for that and we can we can put it anywhere.
But maybe I will put it on this method here because this is the method that would be used to actually
map what we are retrieving back into an object again.
So let's see what that might look like someone to make making at school.
And then I will refer to an operation type.
And this will be fined by ADI, and then the value will be.
And I'm going to use the tax block again.
So let's try a select I.D. on a street address and address it to a city kind of state postcode county
region and country from addresses where I.D. equals question mark.
All right.
And then our credit repository is going to assume that there is that that one little question mark there
and it knows how to bind to that and execute this query for us.
So we should be good there.
And alternatively, I could have just said select star instead of all of these.
But I did mention before that it's it's generally considered better practice to be explicit with the
actual columns that we want.
All right.
Though in this case, it probably wouldn't have mattered too much.
And now down here, we need to actually pretend like we're getting back some results from our results
set, which is here, and then we're going to map those back into an object again.
So I will put my cursor down here and we will simply start extracting values so we'll do an IRS dot
get long.
And by the way, I just want to make sure you all recall that the reason I know to use an IRS don't
get long here instead of a get string or whatever is because I'm looking on Line 19 on our select statement,
and I see that the first column I'm selecting for is an ID is the ID column, and I know that the ID
column maps to a long in Java.
And likewise, I know that the next column I'm selecting for, which is street address, was modeled
in the database as a VAR car and I know that of our car maps to a string in Java.
So that's just a quick little reminder on how I know which methods of the results set to use are RC.
I get long or get string or whatever.
If I had a date column, I'd be mapping to a timestamp or whatever type of date field in Java.
OK.
And then we will pass in the name of that column, which is I'd.
And then I will go ahead and capture that, and I'm going to call for now and an honest look at string
and I'll name will be street unfair address.
And after that, and we'll call it, Yes, us, OK, so it's not that string, and it will have a column
called address to an to call that just just.
And then it's like a string in a column called City.
After that, and if fine city almost like a string.
State capture that 48 hour is like a dream.
A code after that was go to sign our escort during.
County.
Cameron County has been named after Katrina.
Reading.
After that region, now here, we need to think about this a bit in the database, the region will be
taxed, but in our Java domain, we've modeled the region to be an enum right?
And so now if we want this to work, we need to map the text back into the enum.
Do you remember how to go from text to an enum?
If you do, go ahead and try this out on your own?
OK.
So did you get it all right, so to handle that?
What we can do is refer to the region enum here.
And then it has a value of method value of and then we can basically just wrap this string that we're
retrieving like this now.
We are going to want to do one more thing, though, but I'll show you that in just a second, but let
me go ahead and finish capturing this as region.
OK, so there's our region.
Now here's the one thing that I think we also want to consider, though if we jump into the region in
a room here, we see that all of the constants are all uppercase, right?
And so the value of method here is going to assume that the strings were passing in are all uppercase
two.
However, if we jump back over here to some sample data, we see here that there were some records that
actually were not all uppercase, right?
All of these pre-existing records here actually happened, not to be all uppercase.
So let's make our code a little safe so that it won't matter if the names here are uppercase or not.
So can you think of a way to write the code so that whether or not the region text in the database is
like this with a Capital First letter and all the rest lowercase or all caps are all lowercase, it
wouldn't matter.
Can you think of a way to make it so that that won't matter, and this code will always work?
If you want to take a stab at that, go ahead.
All right.
Did you get that one?
OK, so this is pretty easy.
All you have to do is when we do this, our state get string.
This string is going to return a string, right?
And so then we can call a method on the string like to upper.
Remember that to uppercase.
And that's going to make the entire string upper case, no matter how it originally was.
And now we should be much safer to successfully be able to convert that field over as long as it's not
null.
Now, if it's null, we're going to have problems.
All right.
And then we've got one more field to grab.
Our start capturing.
Country.
And now we're back to the easy stuff again.
All right, so there's all of our fields.
Extracted from the results.
And now all we need to do is just go make an actual address, right?
So new address.
Let's see now what do we have here?
OK, so it looks like we do have a constructor that takes every, every single field already.
So ID street address address to city.
State postcode.
Country.
Oh, county.
County.
Oh, I missed.
No, I didn't miss Co. OK, there's Co..
OK.
Co. also.
And finally, region.
And then capture that.
And then return it now, I could have just said return right here and just, you know, without the
equal sign and just returned the new address, blah blah blah.
Or I can capture it here.
It doesn't matter that much.
All right, so there we should now have hopefully the ability to retrieve an address from the database
by ID.
So now I think we might be able to go ahead and run this.
So let me open up the test that we just ran and let's just run it and see what happens.
Well, there you go.
Looks like that's working, huh?
Now let's be unhappy and run all of the tests because I don't know how that's going to go.
That might not go quite as well.
All right.
So I'm back here in the people repository tests, and I'm going to go ahead now and run all the tests.
Hey.
Awesome, awesome look.
They're all working, so apparently we did not introduce any regressions.
That is to say we did not break any previously working functionality, which is always a nice thing
to to have.
All right.
So I'm going to go ahead and close that down.
Come back down here to our test.
All right.
So awesome.
Now that wasn't too bad, was it?
So in the next lesson, I want to stay with this use case, though, of finding a person by ID because
I want to show you another way that this can be implemented, which may have some benefits, and also
gives me an excuse to teach you some more cool stuff about databases that you should know about.
So I'm going to go ahead and see you in the next one.